large chuck of the slave population were prisoners of war, however there were other ways people could find themselves in slavery. It was common for children to be kidnapped and sold, since most kids spent most of their time outside in the farm, they were easy target. Also confused and elderly people would be tricked into being sold. It also wasn’t uncommon for people to sell themselves if they were poor and didn’t have the means to care for themselves. If a father sold himself, he also sold his wife and children by association.  Some were also brought in from other islands
It was considered a good thing to end one’s days in a foreign land and not in their home country. Also, Christianity was quite appealing because it offered the salves a sense of salvation, something many of them were looking for back in Africa. Many believed that their masters would treat them good so that they could live longer thus allowing more service to be performed. 
A defective slave was one that was not in optimal physical condition and could not perform duties adequately. Slaves would be stripped and lined up in booths while they were auctioned off. Those not sold were branded by their respective country and were attempted to be sold again later. Those not able to be sold were to be shipped beck, however in practice many were kept in awful conditions for so long they perished. 
He described them as looking very foreign. Bright red faces from sun exposure, pale skin and long hair. They came off as brutish not only for how they treated the Africans but also how they treated each other. He goes on to tell a story of how one died and they casually threw his body overboard. He described the language as something he’s never heard. Some prisoners believed that the Europeans wanted them for their flesh color. And that they would be skinned like lambs.  
Suicide was provocative. The Africans had such horrible conditions many wanted to end their lives. However, the consequence of a failed suicide attempt was so bad that it dissuaded many from trying. People who refused to eat had their teeth broken and were force fed. Few tried to jump overboard in an attempt to drown, those successful were considered lucky. Those unsuccessful were beat mercilessly. 
The ships sound very bad. Conditions sound abysmal. Its crazy to think how despite the high proportion of slaves to captors the slaves could not take control of the ship. The writer used very vivid imagery. And was quite effective at painting a picture.
